older wiser members of the herd are
effectively passing on a detailed body
of knowledge the pathways to food and
water and the timing through the seasons
which have allowed that particular
family to survive here over many
generations the callers are giving Micah
greater insight into elephant behavior
and in some cases leading him to new
discoveries a GPS message takes him to a
place he's never been to before a
waterhole right in the middle of the
Kalahari dozens of major elephant
highways seem to converge here from
every direction
[Music]
it's so extraordinary I've never seen so
many elephants around the small little
pen I mean all around us here in the hay
more elephants about 200 to our right we
just surrounded but it in the middle of
this extraordinary gathering of 5,000
elephants is the one who's inadvertently
led him there how I can support Li XI
right there right
hey big girl she's got a card she's
she's so cool and she's never found this
place had nothing for her I mean here
sure number right in the middle of the
elephant heartland
she must have journeyed hundreds of
kilometres to get here hey brilliant man
bont Lee and all the other matriarchs
have ignored good water holes nearby
what's drawn so many families to this
particular path this has to be more than
just a coincidence I began to realize
that there must be a deliberate
intention to this congregation that not
only do they all know how to get here
but also the timing of the others
arrival it seems that they're thinking
beyond the own family experience and
suggests an elephant intellect far more
complex than we might have imagined Mike
believes that they may be directly
communicating and sharing information or
networking in some way that may have
long-term survival benefits
he thinks this kind of clan group might
be an important event in an elephant's
life when bonds are reinforced between
family groups vital decisions are made
and survival strategies are shared
you